---
layout: post
title: The fundamental difference of Christian or not
---

The current Christian world is facing a deep crisis. As we can see in recent years, many Christian churches in western world, have conceded to the secular world. For example, United Methodist church [[1]] in United States have brought into women as pastors and admitted homosesual instead of condemning this abornormality. prebysterian church [[2]] in United States also conceded and even worse. But if we ever know someone in those churches, we have to admit that those Christians are just normal Americans,
who have the basic or even higher moral displines. So what has went wrong? Why they began to pursue 'nice' instead of faith on the road of Christian?

In order to answer this question, we have to go back to the Holy Bible scriptures as well as the original Christian traditions. 

He said to him,* “You shall love the Lord, your God, with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind. This is the greatest and the first commandment. The second is like it:* You shall love your neighbor as yourself. The whole law and the prophets depend on these two commandments. Matthew 22 37:39 [[3]]

Here Jesus clearly mentioned the both most important cores for any Christians. We need to love God as the priority and love our neighbors. If we studied the church history, when Christian churches such as Catholic churches thrived, they were practising those two cores. For example, at the late Roman Empire, Catholics would go to the streets and save those abandoned babies and took care of them. Actually, even if we observe those successul other religious groups outside of Christians, for example, traditional Japanese/Shinto believers or traditional Muslim groups, we can also find they had followed those doctrines by Jesus among their own communities. Of course, as Christians, we have to follow Jesus and God and Holy Spirity Trinity. But we can see Jesus teaching also applies to other worships and groups. This is actually the evidence that Jesus is God, because we cannot see the reverse principles from other religions. Only the real creator, the One, could speak such truth on general principles. 

Notice here Jesus doesn't say "Love human as yourself" as later some distorted Bible versions changed to. He specifically says, love neighbors. But why? Why Jesus asks us love our neighbors instead of love human beings. What are the differences between the two? And why we cannot love human beings? I believe this is where the modern western Christians have gone wrong. Why we cannot love human beings? Well, first of all, human beings are sinners and we even as Christians are humans but not God. Only Jesus can forive the sins, as mortals, we don't owe the divine ability to forgive sins, that is the power belongs to God. This is a concept which is very hard for westerns from traditional western society to understand. Because they came from the society which heavily limited and restricted by Christian faith. So they have no idea what evils and sinister things human beings can do because of the Christian faith protections. Many Westerner if they have read so far will question my last statement. But I have an example: 

So when Catholic Christian missionaries Ludovico Buglio (1606–1682) and Gabriel de Magalhães (1610–1677), first came to my home nation area Basu - Szechuan and Chungking at the end of Ming Dynasty in year 1640 [[4]], they met the Chinese warlord Zhang Xianzhong in Chengtu. They documented what sins Zhang had done to my Szchuanese ancesters. One time, Zhang announced that he would restore public civilians examination which was the traditional way to elect government officials in Confucious influenced culture areas such as pan-China regions and Korea and Vietnam. Intellectuals across Szhuchan believed Zhang and came to Chengtu to attend this so called election. Zhang's military led those testers for military to a playground and used hundreds of scared horses to stamp upon on those military testers and crushed them into ground meats. As for none military testers, Zhang lead them to a door and one student entered and was taken to be killed and threw into the river. He also designed some other games to kill, for example, set up a cord and all the students who were higher than the cord were killed. Among tens of thousands students, only two were shorter than the cord. And of of them was Ouyang Zhi who later wrote the book Record of Warnings to Szechuan. And Zhang Xianzong was very cruel, the details of his crimes will be like the darkness which Gandalf saw under the Misty Mountain that even talked about it will overshaw the sunny days. And Zhang did numerous such terrible crimes to my home nation areas, before he came to Szechuan and Chungking, there lived more than 4 million registered household populations, the real populations should be more than that. But after Zhang Xianzhong delude, there were only around 100,000 household registered people left. And in Szchuan and Chungking, there were so many tigers who dared to wander around streets in the day time. With God's blessings, both misiionaries have escaped unhurt, but all the local baptized Catholics were murdered. And when Zhang conducted the massacre in Chengtu, he even put both Catholic missionaries on each of the gate of the city and let them wacth on live the on-going massacres. Both missinaries cired ane even kwotou which actually against Christian faith to Zhang and plead for his mercy but Zhang refused and almost killed all the people in Chengtu. They wrote a book on their experiences called 聖教入川記 The Recording on Holy Catholic entered Szechuan, but for some reason, this book was not published until 1918 after 20 years of the Boxer Rebellion. One important thing I want to mention, Zhang is not a maniac, he talked to Catholic missinaries and learnt about Jesus teachings and western world, and he agreed that Jesus teachings are good and western world was good. His excuse was Szechuanese were so bad that they were not able to change without killings. Noticing that Zhang didn't have the concept of neighbor but Basu people as a whole. 

So now, back to my previous point, except for Jesus Christ, who else on earth can declare he could love sinners like Zhang Xianzhong? And Zhang Xianzhong like persons and crimes are very often in China history not just once in history. So the argument that Zhang was just possesed by demons can't stand the ground. And this theory cannot explain that even possesions happen around the world and everyday but why only did some damages in China areas. Japan or Korea or Vietnam were not Christian societies and had similar cultures, not none of them had such terrible crimes, so not being the Christian society is not the excuse either. Anyone who is honest has to admit that sin is part of human beings and some sins are so terrible that none of us execpt God can forgive them. Forgiving sins is the prvilleges only God has which is the same as loving sinners.

And the loving human beings false teaching could also result in another consequence. One day they will see all people are the same and let bad people abuse their love and compassions. The other day, if some honest people like me point out the falsehood, they will turn 180 degrees and hate all people who came from China areas or speak Chinese as language. They have changed their moral values according to a replacement of modern ideology which is humanism instead of our lord's teaching. And this is very dangerous and disturbing. Recognizing oneself as God is the most dangeours thing mortals can do. And when we use our limited resources on abstract ideas or concepts, we will ignore our neighbors who are in our real life and ignore their real pains and sufferings. And after we abandoned them, and our communities will disresolve as the current US and UK and other western societies are facing. This explains why UK elites intentionally ignored the large scale of rape on poor British white girls. [[5]] Noticing when those muslim rapists conducted those terrible crimes on Britishes, they did not conduct the same crimes to those young Muslim girls in their own immigration societies. they actually still have the neighbor concept inside of their own society so far. That's why Muslim societies have kept on growing in UK and Europe. 

We need to go back to those most important fundations as Christians as Jesus teaches us. 




[1]: https://www.umc.org/en/content/ask-the-umc-what-is-the-churchs-position-on-homosexuality
[2]: https://www.pcusa.org/resource/church-and-homosexuality
[3]: https://bible.usccb.org/bible/matthew/22#:~:text=37j%20He%20said%20to,depend%20on%20these%20two%20commandments.%E2%80%9D
[4]: https://www.cuhk.edu.hk/ics/journal/articles/v52p065.pdf
[5]: https://www.newindianexpress.com/opinions/columns/ravi-shankar/2025/Jan/11/britains-rape-jihad

