---
layout: post
title: Russia Empire Is Over So is Ukraine
---

There's a famous novel in Chinese speaking areas called Three Kingdoms, this book was about stories at end of Han Empire. Even romantic Japanese made it into many games, but the real story is far more miserable. In year 156 AD before this era started, there were over 50 million registered populations, in year 265 AD, this number is around 7.5 million. Poets in that era used their poems to describe the miserable situations:

{% highlight js %}
「馬前懸人頭，車後載婦女」

"Heads hang before the horses, women are carried behind the carts."

「白骨露於野，千里無雞鳴，生民百餘一，念之斷人腸」

"White bones are exposed in the wilderness, for a thousand miles no rooster crows, of the living people only one in a hundred remains, thinking of it breaks the heart."
{% endhighlight %}


In the end of the Han Empire, the power began to transfer from the emperor and empire central government to warlords. The royalists nobles could use some Machiavelli conspiracies to cause the conflicts between different warlords such as Dong Zhuo and Lv Bu, but they couldn't recover the power and credibility back to the emperor and government. There were some loyalist warlords in the beginning, who didn't plan to become emperor themselves. But as time went by, they bagan to develop conflicts between themselves and began to fight with each other intead of fighting with anti-emperor rebels or warlords. And their united front collapsed and poweful warlords such as Cao Cao, Yuan Shao, Sun Quan, Bei Liu, etc began to take the power. And there were numous battles between them. And most of the population losses actually didn't happen in the battles directly but died from the interruption of food production and trade routes and bandits and hunger.

After we know what happened in China region empire in history. Now let's check the current situation in Russia. In the beginning of the Ukraine War, Putin and Russia Empire central government have lost all their elite military forces and veterans who had real battle experiences. The central Russia empire government doesn't have bagrgins to control those powerful oligarchs in Russia. We have to remember that Putin regime is not Stalin or Hitler regimes when Stalin and Hitler had absolute powers. Putin was only a samll **PGU** officer, he became the empire emperor with the support from his oligarchs group such as Patrushev. Thus even Putin is the emperor, he doesn't have the control over those oligarchs. He could only balance between them, but we can see the power struggles between none-USSR establishment oligarch Prigozhin and USSR establishment oligarch Shoigu, Putin no longer has the control over them. Even later he assasinated Prigozhin successfully, yet he even was not able to appoint his own people as their new leadership. The power is still in the hands of Prigozhin's son. Also, just as in Han Empire in China regions, as the central government becomes weaker, oligarch groups have the priority over the local draft soldiers and taxitions. The best soldiers would rather become the private militias for those powerful oligarchs because of much better compensations, thus we can see Russia troops could only draft old and weak soldiers and had to hire North Korean, central Asians, Chechens and African troops to fight for them. Also, central government no longer could get the taxes from those oligarchs either. And in the same time, power struggles inside Putin regime becomes more intense. Dyumin and Sobyanin seems to be the most promising ones. But according to the history experiences in china empire, those famous ones are not the ones could laugh until the end. The orligarchs who have the regional control over important areas should be the ones who will become the new rulers. There will be wars over the Euro-Asia continents. Just as the Han Empire, Russian people will suffer enormously. But unlike china which is the "Depression of Civilizations" as Liu Zhongjing decribes, Russian warlords won't easily use nuclear weapons against each other.

Then how about Ukraine? It will be the same, because even their belongs and ideologies now are different, but no matter Ukrainian and Russians are pan-russian civilizations. Both don't have much differences by essence. Chinese have a racist nickname for Russians - **毛子** which means Hairy Ones, and they also called Ukrainians - **二毛子** meaning Second Hariy Ones. More importantly, even if both had some differences in Czar Russian Empire, after Soviet Union, the communism had forged both orligarchs have the same behavior patterns. All of them started from similar positions as factoory management of Soviet Union. Under Communism system, if you were honest factory manager, you would never get your raw materials and equipment on time. Thus those sneaky ones would use the resources they owned such as industry alcohol to make voltka and used them to bribe their peers in other factories and department as well as their upper management. Thus they could be promoted, but as you can imagine, they could offend others or be envied, thus they had to organize their own gangsters to protect themselves and their factories. That's how those oligarchs in former communist nations got their statue and wealths. no matter Russian ones or Ukrainian ones. The irony is that because they were so alike to each other, they began to develop conflicts esp in East Ukraine regions and that's how the war began to develop. In the beginning, there were just conflcts between different gangs, but later it developed into conflicts between different nations. There's no other explanations except for the wills of God. Now even Zelenski looks like a strong man, but just like Putin, he doesn't have control over the warlords in Ukraine either. Ukraine warlords such as Azov Battalian recruits soldiers and collect money from all over the world. They don't need central government either. Besides, now Zelenski has showed his real face and offended at least half of Americans. The other half of Americans and Europeans Zelenski and his buddies had hoped for, now will face the after-globalization era. They won't have resources for Ukraine. China won't either, they have to use all their leftover resources on the invasion to Taiwan when there won't be no new income from global trades anymore. 

Both Russia Russians and Ukraine Russians have forgotten that the most miserable days for pan-russians were not invaded by any European nations but by Tartars. At the time, there was a Jewish businessman who visited Istanbel, and he was shocked by endless white slaves he saw. "are there still any Russians left? " He asked himself. Now the same future is awaiting for pan-russians. As Russia is losing its control over Caucasiae as well as Middle and West Asia where there are hge amount of unemployed young Musilms, ISIS power will definately rise from those regions. And the wars will be between Russian and Ukrain warlords, Russian and Tuvan warlords, Russian and Muslim warlords, different Muslim warlords, etc. The whole Eurasian Steppe will be bloodbath. 

So how did both Russia and Ukraine fall into today's situation? That's simple, because of China. Basically, China wants to invade Taiwan, so they want to distract United States and western powers from East Asia. Thus when Putin visited China before the invasion in 2020, Xi must have promised Putin that China would have full support to Russia, as Hitler had promised Stalin they would not invade Soviet Union. But Xi didn't tell Putin that Xi had not completed war preparations himself. Since so called Open Reform age in 1980s, China had transferred its own defense industry factiroes to civilian factories for most part. China is just like North Korea and Soviet Union, which could make tens of millions low end military equipment such as guns and ammos and cannons. But after open reform, they moved to modern western defense industry. Now they don't have either the quantity as North Korea, nor advanced weapons as western nations, that's why Russia had to import ammos from North Korea, simply because China cannot provide the quantiy and same Soviet Union quality ammos. And China's oligarchs are much worse than Russian ones, that's why their type96 tank would lose wheel during the tank competition and their trucks found by Russians are trash. Also, China doesn't really want Russia end this war soon, they want extend the Ukraine war to distract US attention from Asia as long time as possble. That's also the reason why they had Hamas attack Israel in October 7th, because if US needs to put one or two carrier strike groups in Europe and another two in Middle East, then US won't have enough carrier strike groups in East Asia anymore. And that's what China wants. Thus China won't and can't support Russia in full. But Russia has jumped into the pit already.

But are Russians and Ukrainians innocent and not deserve this miserable fate awaiting? Well, remember that Ukraine and Russia have been the two largest entities which export their military technologies to china empire. Ukraine sold not only individual weapons but more importantly the whole product line and related designs such as aircraft carrier, Su-33 aircraft carrier fighter, UGT-25000 Turbine, tank engine, missiles, Zubr-class LCAC, Il-78, etc. We can say that the whole backbone of China military was built upon Ukraine technologies. Had Ukraine not sold those military technologies to China and supported its ambitions against Taiwan. Then today China wouldn't have the courage to support Russia even verbally. And Putin wouldn't have had the courage to invade Ukraine. And Russia also supplied china empire with S-300, Su-27/Su-30, S-400, Sovremenny class destroyer, etc.  

And will china outwit everyone else? Well, nobody else on earth will have the same miserable fate as china and chinese. The reason china was not conquered by middle and west Asia Muslims were the protection from Russia. Russia empire elites are very clear that the threats from china fellahs to Russia are much less than Muslim empire. For the past hundreds years, Russia has been suppressing Muslims and uphold china and chinese. And it were western powers and Japan helped china stay independance from Russia, now china set up russia into destructions, also destroyed the western order which has been protecting them. Thus, nobody could protect them from the coming Muslim conquerers. Had not china supplied Taliban with money and possible information and expel American troops from Afganistan airports, American troops could bomb ISIS from there. Now since Americans troops have left and their military bases are so far away from Middle Asia, ISIS must will move to Middle Asia and china is the easiest target. In fact, china in history has done this over and over again, they allied with Jin Empire and eliminated Niao Empire and after that, they were conquered by Jin Empire. Then lhundreds of years later, they allied with Mongols and eliminated Jin Empire and then conquered by Mongols. Every time, china will ally with more dangerous enemy and against the lesser threat. The latest case was they allied with Soviets and against Japan Empire and gave themselves to the hands of commies. Liu Zhongjing wants to divide china empire into different states as in the rest of the world. So even if ISIS conquered china in the future, they would face the resistances from different nations. But his idea so far is not welcomed by chinese. I just hope our Bashu regions could get the independence and survived.

The end is near and be repent!